>>DAVID WILCOCK:
I'm David Wilcock,
and welcome to another exciting
edition of "Disclosure."
This is the cream of the crop.
This is the PhD class in ancient
civilizations bringing together
the best of the best, the very
premier scholars and writers
of our time investigating
what is going on,
and perhaps the heavyweight
champion of them
all is Graham Hancock.
I was very honored that when
I wrote my first book, "Source
Field Investigations," that
he gave me a cover endorsement
and said that my
research was magnificent.
That was the anointing.
And when I read
his book in 1995,
I had no idea that one
day, almost 20 years later,
here I would be on
my show giving you
this interview with
him and actually
getting the chance to have
such a high-minded conversation
with him about very
fascinating subjects.
We dive into the subject
of the Ark of the Covenant,
and the idea that
it's still here.
That it never left,
but that it actually
still exists in Ethiopia.
And is being guarded in a place
called Axum by these temple
priests, and that they get
cataracts on their eyes
after only two or three years
apparently because the Ark is
a thing of fire, suggesting
there may be radioactivity that
is actually causing
their cataracts, which
does happen in the presence
of radiation exposure.
Graham and I also start talking
about tunnels under the Giza
Plateau.
And remember, the
sonar readings do
show that there is a
cathedral-sized room
down there.
We know this.
And the Egyptian
authorities completely
denied it for the longest
time, but then they
came out with this Temple
of Osiris television special
that we're going to hear about.
Where none other
than the director
of Egyptian antiquities,
Zahi Hawass,
is going down into these
tunnels under the Giza Plateau,
and he finds this temple.
We talk about what he does or
doesn't find in the sarcophagus
down there, and we
talk of how bizarre
it is to think about
the amount of work
that it would take to
tunnel into bedrock
and pull all that rock
out, especially if there's
a large room down
there, which we've been
able to prove that there is.
This is nothing easy, to
haul all that rock out
is a huge project.
And if it was done with
conventional technology
it would take forever.
But if there's an
advanced technology where
you can carve through stone very
easily just by liquefying it,
let's say, that becomes
a much different story.
Another point I want to say here
is that I have insiders who I
cannot get to come
forward on camera,
one of whom worked at a very
high level in the Reagan
administration.
He talked to Ronald
Reagan all the time,
and he has given me
many pieces of data
that have correlated with
what other insiders told me
independently.
Now this guy said
something very important
that you're not going to
hear from Graham Hancock.
He said that, in the government,
we know on a secret level
that, in fact, the Giza Plateau
was the highest point in a very
ancient civilization
that covered
the whole top third of
Africa, and that civilization
was apparently wiped out 50,000
years ago in a very epic war.
And therefore, if you go
through the Sahara Desert,
and you dig down anywhere
between as little as 30
to 40 feet of sand, and in
some cases as much as 100
to 300 feet of sand, there
are extensive ruins down there
of a much older, much
more ancient civilization,
and what we found in Egypt
is only the highlands up
Another very fascinating
aspect of this testimony
is that the ancient Egyptian
priests found multiple caches
of books and documents
which they then
spirited away to the Library
of Alexandria in Egypt.
And we are told that the burning
of the Library of Alexandria
was a false flag, and the
only thing they really burned
was the census
records, and the Romans
took all of the real books, all
of the ancient, ancient stuff
cataloged by the Egyptians,
and hid it away in where?
The Vatican library.
I have another insider who was
given a top secret clearance
to go into the Vatican
library and do research,
and he actually saw
these books himself,
and said that many of
them had bright colors.
They'd have a bright
blue leather cover
or a bright red leather cover.
A lot of them apparently had
belt buckles over the book,
and when you open
them up, the pages
are made of some kind of
weird indestructible material.
So they're still white,
you can't tear them.
In some cases, all the
pages are like bar codes.
In other cases, the
writing is very pristine,
and you actually see diagrams
of spaceships, space stations,
all sorts of really
advanced technology
that's being hidden
away in the Vatican.
It's all being kept from
us, and its researchers
like Graham Hancock who are
truly looking for the bread
crumbs, and have never
been given access
to the really, really
good stuff hidden away
in the Vatican library.
But we get tantalizingly close
to the center of the mystery,
because in this
episode, we're talking
about the super weapon of the
Ark of the Covenant, the idea
that it's still there, and
these mysterious tunnels
under the Giza Plateau.
Of course, the
piece de resistance
of the tunnels
under the plateau,
is the infamous Hall of Records
described by Edgar Cayce.
The idea that was
given in his readings
that there are
highly technological
artifacts there
that will give us
the entire history of the
people who came to Earth
and colonized it forming
what we now call Atlantis.
This is "Disclosure" with Graham
Hancock, the fifth interview
out of six that we've done.
And I want you to enjoy this.
Check it out.
So you and I both have
spoken on "Ancient Aliens,"
and the typical interpretation
on that show of the burning
bush is, well, there
must be a UFO up there
and the light is shining
through the bush.
Is that what you believe?
>>GRAHAM HANCOCK: No.
That's not my take on that.
I look at another
aspect of the story.
And this draws from
the research that's
been done by Professor Benny
Shanon at the Hebrew University
in Jerusalem.
Benny Shanon is professor
of psychology at the Hebrew
University in Jerusalem,
and it happens
that he's a great expert on
ayahuasca, that visionary brew
of the Amazon.
I personally had about 55 or
60 sessions with ayahuasca.
I know for sure that Benny
has had more than 400 sessions
with ayahuasca.
>>DAVID: So he could
be clinically insane
like 500 times over?
>>HANCOCK: But the thing
is he's absolutely sharp
and a very, very,
very rational man.
And an important academic
in his own right.
But he's put his money
where his mouth is,
and he's not just
studied academically,
he's gone out and
drunk the brew,
and he's interviewed hundreds
and hundreds of people
around the world
who drunk the brew.
And he proposes a very
interesting theory,
which is that ayahuasca,
in the Amazon,
is a mixture of two plants.
One of them contains
DMT, and the other one,
the ayahuasca vine itself,
contains a monoamine oxidase
inhibitor.
>>DAVID: Oh.
>>HANCOCK: This is necessary
because DMT cannot normally be
accessed orally.
There's an enzyme in the gut
called monoamine oxidase, which
switches off DMT.
That's why normally
you need to smoke it
in order to get the effect.
Well, the clever thing
about the Amazonian brew
is that the DMT is in the
leaves of the Psychotria viridis
plant, OK?
And the ayahuasca vine contains
a mononamine oxidase inhibitor,
which switches off that
enzyme in the gut that allows
the DMT to be absorbed orally.
It's a very clever piece
of ethnopharmacology.
>>DAVID: And could that
have been done randomly?
I mean--
>>HANCOCK: I don't believe it
could have been done randomly,
nor do shamans in the Amazon.
They say that their
ancestors were taught
to do this by the spirits.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>HANCOCK: Now, what
Benny Shanon's point
is that there are plants
in the Middle East,
indeed in the Sinai
Peninsula, which
contain exactly the same
ingredients as ayahuasca brew.
Syrian Rue, you know,
contains the monoamine oxidase
inhibitor and a species of
mimosa contains the DMT.
And he suggested-- he wrote
a detailed academic paper
on this.
He suggested that Moses may
have been under the influence
of an ayahuasca analog.
Of course, he couldn't get
those Amazonian plants,
but he was using plants that
were locally available which
produced the same effect.
And what is experience
at the burning bush
was precisely like
an ayahuasca vision.
It's actually very
interesting, in the movie
"Noah," which is
recently-- we've
seen in the last few months,
which where Noah actually
drinks a dark brew.
That is a reference
to this research,
I believe, that there was a
brew available in the Middle
East that would produce a deeply
altered state of consciousness.
And in those deeply altered
states of consciousness,
we do not always
encounter benign entities.
We sometimes encounter entities
that don't mean well for us,
but hoodwink us.
And, again, I come back to
that my theme in my novels
that demons are
manipulating human kind.
So that's my take on
Moses at the burning bush.
He's encountering what the
Gnostics called the Demiurge.
He's encountering this
negative spiritual entity,
which is going to lead
him down a negative part.
>>DAVID: And this entity
was able to use him
as an intermediary to
build a super weapon.
>>HANCOCK: Use him
as an intermediary
to build a super
weapon, gives him
the blueprint of the
Ark of the Covenant,
which is very-- set out
in very great detail
in the Book of Exodus.
This monstrous instrument,
as I called it, this weapon,
is built at the foot of
Mount Sinai by a craftsman
called Bezaleel, who is
working to a blueprint
that Moses has received from the
entity who he construes as God,
and has created this
weapon of destruction.
>>DAVID: And let's go through
some of the descriptions
of what the Ark could do.
What were some different
things that were used-- like,
how bad ass was it?
>>HANCOCK: Let's say
that Steven Spielberg was
right on the money in
the imagery of the Ark
of the Covenant that he gave
us in the famous "Raiders
of the Lost Ark."
There is nothing in that
film that I can fault
from a factual point of view.
The Ark, as it is portrayed
by Steven Spielberg,
whether it's a radio for
talking to God, as one
of the phrases that Indiana
Jones uses, whether it's
the bolts of fire
shooting out from it
and striking people
dead, everything
that we see about the Ark, this
powerful, powerful instrument,
in that film is
absolutely in line
with the biblical accounts.
>>DAVID: Including the idea that
the Nazis went looking for it?
>>HANCOCK: Yes.
I would say that that
idea is quite correct.
Of course, the Nazis
were on the dark side.
They were the ultimate
creatures of the Demiurge.
attempt to lead mankind--
to mislead mankind into
a dark and deadly path.
>>DAVID: And if they
could get this weapon,
then World War II
would have been
no problem for them ostensibly?
>>HANCOCK: They were looking for
anything, any weapon of power.
By it's important to recognize
that the Nazis were deeply
into the occult.
They were deeply
into the dark side.
And I would say, when I talk
about spiritual forces at work,
negative spiritual
forces, when I
talk about War God misleading
Cortes and Moctezuma to create
the catastrophe of the
Spanish conquest of Mexico,
the catastrophe of Hitler
is another example of that.
Again and again throughout
history, human beings
have felt themselves
to be in contact
and guided and inspired
by spiritual forces, which
have led them to do
terrible, terrible things.
And Hitler was one of
those, was one of those,
and it makes absolute sense
that he would have sought
out the Ark of the Covenant.
>>DAVID: Wouldn't
it be interesting
if the Ark of the Covenant
was still around somewhere?
>>HANCOCK: Well, of
course, I think it is.
>>DAVID: You do?
OK.
>>HANCOCK: My book,
"The Sign of the Seal,"
traces the Ark of the
Covenant to Ethiopia,
to the highlands of Ethiopia.
>>DAVID: So you actually think
that this ancient technology,
this super weapon, actually
still exists on earth today?
>>HANCOCK: I do, yeah.
And I think that it's under--
>>DAVID: In Ethiopia?
>>HANCOCK: It's under the
guardianship of a people, who
are fortunately, for all
of us, keeping it out
of modern history.
Keeping it away from the world.
The very last thing we want
is for the Ark of the Covenant
to appear again.
All three of the
monotheistic faiths,
the fundamentalist
aspects of Islam,
aspects of Judaism,
and the fundamentalists
aspects of Christianity,
have prophecies
concerning the return
of the Ark of the Covenant.
And for the Ark of the
Covenant to be reintroduced
into the time bomb of
Jerusalem and Israel today
would be catastrophic.
And level-headed
people who belong
to Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam,
that's the last thing
that they want to see.
And, in fact, I
remember, years ago when
I was tracing the Ark of
the Covenant to Ethiopia,
I had a long, pretty
much off the record,
chat with the Israeli
ambassador at that time.
And I said to-- the Israeli
ambassador to Ethiopia,
and I said to him, come on,
you guys have got MaSat.
I mean, if the Ark is there,
why don't you just go grab it?
And he looked me straight in
the eyes, he said, you know,
that's the very last thing
that we would want to do.
For the Ark to be reintroduced
into Israel right now
would be a catastrophe
for the world.
Very happy for it to stay here.
>>DAVID: What is some
tangible evidence
that the Ark still exists?
What do we know?
>>HANCOCK: Well, for me,
it was an extended piece
of historical detective work,
because I haven't seen it.
The Ark is kept in
a sanctuary chapel
in the grounds of the oldest
Christian place of worship
in Africa, which is the
Church of Saint Mary of Zion
in the city of Axum.
And the city of Axum is
itself an armed camp.
The heartland of
the Tigrayan people,
who overthrew the tyranny and
the dictatorship of Mengistu
Haile Miriam back in 1991.
This was a barefoot army, who
overthrew the largest standing
army in Africa.
There heartland
is Axum, and they
are the guardians of the Ark,
and there are men with guns
everywhere around
that sacred precinct.
It is possible to go up to
the gates of the chapel.
It is possible to talk to
the monk who guards the Ark,
and I have done that.
I've not talked only
to one, because they
have a very short
lifespan, these monks who
guard the Ark of the Covenant.
Typically, once
they're appointed
to the guardianship of the Ark,
they don't live more than two
or three years.
And very rapidly they--
>>DAVID: What happens to them?
>>HANCOCK: They go blind.
They develop cataracts
over their eyes.
And when I asked the
guardian, the first one that I
met about this and about what
was causing his blindness,
he said it was the Ark
that was doing it to him.
And I said why?
And through the
translator, looking at me
through these
clouded eyes of his,
he said the Ark is
a thing of fire.
And that's when the story got
its hook into me, because there
was truth in his words.
And I do believe that the
Ethiopians do have that object
and I do believe it's
the best place to be.
>>DAVID: So could it be
radioactive, perhaps?
>>HANCOCK: Yes.
>>DAVID: Radioactivity
caused the cataracts?
>>HANCOCK: Yes, this
is strongly suggesting,
as we know from the
biblical accounts,
still today, we're looking at
an object of immense power, that
is likely to be radioactive.
Whether it's a kind of
radioactivity we understand
or something beyond our
understanding, I'm not sure.
>>DAVID: So how many have people
have lost their eyes like this?
>>HANCOCK: Every
single guardian that I
met over a period
of about 10 years,
because I kept going back,
all of them went blind.
And they all said it was
the Ark doing it to them,
and they all died
within a few years.
>>DAVID: And
normally, cataracts,
like if you're in the
highlands of Peru,
you're closer to the sun,
there's less atmosphere,
there's more radiation
hitting your eyes,
and that's why these people
are getting cataracts.
So radiation and cataracts,
there is a relationship?
>>HANCOCK: There
is a relationship.
It's well-known that
there's a relationship.
But for me, it was
a detective work.
It was tracing
how the Ark really
could have got to Ethiopia.
We have the first temple, the
Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem.
It is built as a house
of rest for the Ark
of the Covenant of the Lord.
The Ark is placed in
the Holy of Holies.
Before that, it dominates
the biblical story.
There's more than 200
separate references to it.
After it enters the
Temple of Solomon,
we hardly ever
hear from it again.
The mainstream view
is that the Ark
was looted from Jerusalem
when the Babylonians sacked
Jerusalem in 587 BC.
They did take many
temple treasures,
but the Babylonians were
notorious bureaucrats,
and they kept a
record of everything
they took from Jerusalem,
and included in that record
is not the Ark of the Covenant.
It isn't mentioned and it isn't
amongst the treasures returned
to Jerusalem at the end of the
exile when the people of Israel
go back to the Holy Land.
The Ark, it seems to me,
is missing from the temple
before the Babylonian invasion.
And that's when I found a
very interesting episode
of biblical history, which is
the reign of a monarch called
Manasseh, who is
reviled in the Bible
for abandoning the
traditional Judaic faith
and for installing
in the Holy of Holies
of the temple of Solomon
a pagan idol, which
is an idle to the Canonite
goddess, a tree goddess,
called Asherah.
And I talked to biblical
scholars, particularly
Menahem Haran at Hebrew
University in Jerusalem,
and he said, look,
I don't believe
that those who were loyal to the
traditional worship of Judaism
could have allowed the Ark
to stay in the Holy of Holies
when Manassas put
the Asherah in there.
It would've been
ritually polluted.
They had to take it out.
The Levites, who
carried the Ark,
had to take it out of
the temple at that point
to save it from pollution.
That was around
650 BC, and that's
when I discovered in 650
BC, more or less exactly
the same moment a Jewish
temple mysteriously
is built on the island of
Elephantine in upper Egypt.
>>DAVID: I've been there.
>>HANCOCK: Exactly.
Near this modern town of Aswan.
>>DAVID: Very bad
electrical system.
They blew out--
>>HANCOCK: The Ark
is still at work.
But this is a mystery.
For another temple to be built
in the first temple period
outside of this Isreal--
>>DAVID: Right at that time--
>>HANCOCK: Cannot be explained,
unless that temple was built
to house the Ark
of the Covenant.
So that's how I traced
the Ark to Southern Egypt
to Elephantine,
then around 400 BC,
that temple on the island
of Elephantine is destroyed.
There's conflict between
the Jewish population
of the island of Elephantine
and the Egyptians.
Why?
Because the patron
deity of Elephantine
is Khnum, a ram-headed deity,
and the Jewish population
on the island of Elephantine
are sacrificing rams.
This is well documented.
They're driven out.
I believe they traveled south,
followed the Nile River system
all the way to Lake
Tana in Ethiopia.
Cutting a long story short, I
found an island on Lake Tana
with an ancient tradition
of the Ark of the Covenant.
The monks there,
they're Christians now,
they said we were Jews then.
The Ark was first brought here.
They showed me
ancient structures
that had been part of
the housing of the Ark
on the island of Tana Kirkos.
And then they said,
when Ethiopia converted
to Christianity, which it did
around 200 years after Christ,
one of the first countries
to become Christian,
the first Christian
King, King Ezana,
sent his army to Lake Tana
and took the Ark off to Axum,
and it's been in
Axum ever since.
It's a trail of
circumstantial evidence.
There's more to it than
that, we don't have time
to go into it all now.
Anyway, it's in my book,
"The Sign of the Seal."
But I can't absolutely prove
that the Ark of the Covenant
is in Ethiopia, but I think
Ethiopia has a stronger
case than anywhere
else, and it's
the only place in
the world which
has a living tradition
of veneration of the Ark
of the Covenant to this day.
Everywhere else, the
Ark is a lost object,
forgotten in the past.
In Ethiopia, it's the
center of religious culture,
and weirdly, that's a Christian
religious culture venerating
a pre-Christian relic.
Every single church in
Ethiopia has a replica
of the Ark of the Covenant
or of the Tablets of Stone
in its Holy of Holies.
And if that replica is removed,
the church is deconsecrated
and it gains its
sanctity by reference
to the original
Ark of the Covenant
that they say they keep in Axum.
I think there is great merit
to the Ethiopian claim,
and I'm very glad
that the Ark is
hidden away in the
highlands of Africa
and not on the center of the
world stage causing chaos.
>>DAVID: Well,
doesn't it seem too
that Spielberg has been
leaked information, that he's
disclosing truth through film?
>>HANCOCK: Could be.
Could be so.
I think often truths are
disclosed through film.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>HANCOCK: The
uncomfortable truths
that we don't want to recognize
are leaked to us subliminally
through film, and that
may well be the case.
>>DAVID: Let's talk along
that line of disclosure.
Let's talk about the
Temple of Osiris.
This very strange thing
happens with Zahi Hawass.
They do a television
documentary,
they're now saying
on the documentary
but there's tunnels under
the Egyptian plateau.
>>HANCOCK: Yeah.
>>DAVID: They found--
>>HANCOCK: That again, is
a very interesting process
of the gradual leaking
of information,
because if you go
back 15, 20 years,
you would find Zahi
denying that there's
tunnels under the Giza Plateau.
>>DAVID: That's correct.
>>HANCOCK: Even though the
Edgar Cayce Organization,
the Association for
Research and Enlightenment,
were allowed to carry out sonar
surveys on the Giza Plateau.
It was done very
secretively, but they
were allowed to do that,
and those sonar surveys
did identify tunnel systems
underneath the Giza Plateau.
We know of some of
those tunnel systems.
We know for sure
there's a chamber
under the Sphinx, a big
chamber under the left fore-paw
of the Sphinx.
>>DAVID: We know for sure?
>>HANCOCK: We know
for sure, because--
>>DAVID: Who's we
and how do we know.
>>HANCOCK: Well,
the general public
know because thanks to two
individuals in particular,
John Anthony West
and Professor Robert
Schoch of Boston
University, who went there
with sonar equipment, and
back in the early 1990s,
were able to conduct some
research around the Sphinx
before they were
stopped by Zahi Hawass.
They were able to
conduct sonar research,
and hitting the
ground with hammers
and seeing where the
sound waves bounced back.
They identified a large regular
chamber down about 15 feet
under the left
fore-paw of the Sphinx.
>>DAVID: And the military
could use a similar technology
looking for Saddam Hussein or
bin Laden underground bases?
>>HANCOCK: Of course,
technology has moved on a lot.
Who knows what technology
is being deployed, but--
>>DAVID: But the point is we've
got these seismic waves that
they created with the hammer,
you can measure exactly where
they go, and they know--
>>HANCOCK: They show voids.
They demonstrate voids
under the ground,
and a large regular
void is demonstrated
beneath the Sphinx.
>>DAVID: How big?
>>HANCOCK: About 35 feet
long by about 15 feet wide.
It's a very substantial void.
>>DAVID: Kind of like this room.
>>HANCOCK: A bit
like this room,yeah.
And there it is.
>>DAVID: There's
lot of stuff you
can cram in there potentially.
>>HANCOCK: Potentially, you
could, and, of course, it's
not an accident
that the Edgar Cayce
Foundation, the Association
for Research and Enlightenment
in Virginia Beach
have been involved
in this rather clandestine
research on the Giza Plateau.
Because Edgar Cayce prophesied
that the Hall of Records
of Atlantis would be found
beneath the left fore-paw
of the Sphinx.
>>DAVID: In that exact location.
>>HANCOCK: In that exact
location, so naturally enough,
they have an interest in this.
>>DAVID: And I've heard
that Zahi Hawass actually--
that the ARE paid for
his college education.
>>HANCOCK: Yes, that's the case.
>>DAVID: And then he
goes and completely
180s, and says that
all the Edgar Cayce
stuff is not true, orthodox
Egyptology all the way.
>>HANCOCK: He and
Mark Lehner both.
It's a very curious thing.
Robert Bauval and I, in
our book, "The Message
of the Sphinx," which
was published in 1996,
did a detailed
appendix on this, where
we looked at the education
of Mark Lehner, who arguably
is the leading American
egyptologist at the Oriental
Institute in the
University of Chicago,
and Zahi Hawass, who arguably
is the leading Egyptian
egyptologist.
Zahi Hawass, for many
decades, was the man
who ran the Giza Plateau.
He doesn't at the moment.
And it turns out
that both of them
are closely connected to the
Edgar Cayce Organization.
And were indeed sent through
college by the Edgar Cayce
Organization, and then
returned to the Giza Plateau
to become the prominent figures
that the subsequently became,
at which point, both
of them then say
that they no longer believe
anything that the Edgar Cayce
Organizations say.
That there is no Hall
of Records of Atlantis,
and so on and so forth.
But both of them still
continue to give lectures
at the Edgar Cayce
Organization in Virginia Beach.
I'm not saying that we have
to come to any conclusions
from that, I'm just
saying I find it odd.
>>DAVID: And Mark
Lehner wrote the book
"The Egyptian Heritage,"
which is still
the defining book on Edgar
Cayce's Atlantis story.
>>HANCOCK: He did indeed.
Yes.
Of course, now, he says
he's changed his view,
and indeed, we're entitled
to change our views,
but it's still odd.
>>DAVID: Perhaps
they were threatened,
perhaps they were bribed, we
don't really know what it is.
>>HANCOCK: Who knows?
Who knows what's going on?
All it does for me is
it adds to the feeling
that there's a hidden agenda
at work on the Giza Plateau,
and that we, the public, are
not being told everything
by any means that
is going on there.
And, yes, the notion that there
is an underworld of chambers
and passageways beneath
the Giza Plateau
is well-founded in the
ancient Egyptian texts.
After all, the ancient
name for Giza was Rostau.
And Rostau is also found in
the ancient Egyptian Books
of the Dead, and
in particularly,
in what's called the
Book-- what is in the Duat.
The Duat was the ancient
Egyptian afterlife realm,
which at one level, is an
area of the skyline, quite
an interesting area of
the sky in its own right,
involving the
constellation of Orion
over to the
constellation of Leo.
And at another level, is
a three-dimensional space
of underground chambers and
corridors and passageways.
And there's a very
strong suggestion
that this notion of as above,
so below, that what is in heaven
is replicated upon the earth.
That we should expect to find
an underworld of chambers
and corridors and passageways
beneath the Giza Plateau,
and all the indications are
that we are seeing that today.
And that the
subterranean chamber
beneath the Great Pyramid and
that odd dead-end passageway
that runs off it,
they're part of this.
>>DAVID: Most people
who are not intimately
familiar with this, like
I've been since the 1990s
when I read "Fingerprints,"
may not know Zahi Hawass.
Zahi Hawass is the director
of Egyptian antiquities.
>>HANCOCK: Well, he was
for a very long time.
Zahi's star somewhat fell with
the fall of the Mubarak regime
in Egypt in the Arab Spring.
Zahi was very closely
connected to President Mubarak
and to his wife Susan
Mubarack, and for decades, he
ran the Giza Plateau.
He started out as a junior
inspector on the Giza Plateau,
and at that point, he was
picked out by the Edgar Cayce
Organization and
sent through college,
and then returned
to the Giza Plateau.
And then began to rise very
rapidly through the ranks
until he became the Chief
Inspector on the Giza Plateau,
and then laterally, a minister
in the Egyptian government
with specific responsibility
for the Giza pyramids
and the Sphinx.
So nobody could do anything
on the Giza Plateau
without the go ahead
of Zahi Hawass.
Zahi was, if you like,
the modern pharaoh
off the pyramids.
You couldn't move an
inch on the Giza Plateau
without his say so.
It had to be done.
Any TV crew that worked
there, any archaeologist that
worked there, any research, it
all have to go through Zahi.
If he said yes, you could do it.
If he said no, you
couldn't do it.
It was a simple one
stop shop for working
on the Giza Plateau.
>>DAVID: And what was his
opinion about Atlantis
or any of these
alternative theories?
>>HANCOCK: Well, you
see, this is the problem,
because Zahi has this heritage
of being sent through college
by the Edgar Cayce Organization,
he continues to this day
to give lectures at the
ARE in Virginia Beach,
but if you ask him about this,
he says, oh, it's all nonsense.
I don't believe in
Atlantis at all.
And he's more Catholic
than the pope, you know.
He's the mainstream
archaeologists mainstream
archaeologist, and he's the
popular face of Egyptology.
He's been on so
many documentaries
constantly repeating and
reemphasizing the mainstream
view and ridiculing
alternative views,
but his heritage is in
the alternative side.
>>DAVID: So what if we wanted to
send somebody out there and try
to drill a core sample down into
this chamber under the Sphinx?
Is Zahi going to let that-- or
would he have let that happen?
>>HANCOCK: Well,
he said we wouldn't
let that happen when he was
running the show, whether it
could happen now, I don't know.
I don't know what powers
are at work in Giza today.
I'm interested to see
what happens next,
and Zahi's star did fall with
the fall of the Mubarak regime,
but he is rapidly
rehabilitating himself.
He is Teflon man.
Nothing sticks to him.
And he's a very powerful
figure, and in some ways,
a very engaging figure.
He's an excellent talker, and
he knows his stuff for sure.
Many people feel that he's been
very beneficial and positive
for Egypt in many ways and
has brought huge numbers
of tourists to Egypt.
He's a major player at Giza
and continues to be so.
>>DAVID: So let's
go back now to where
we were, "The Temple of
Osiris," this television
documentary shows up on
television where Zahi is saying
there's all these
underground passageways,
nobody's really talking
about how much work
it would take to pull all
that stone out of the ground.
>>HANCOCK: No, nobody's
thinking it through.
Nobody's considering
what it might
mean, that some huge
ancient project is
being evidenced here.
A project that we
don't understand,
which gets to the heart of
what Giza is really all about.
>>DAVID: And then
they're claiming,
similar to Geraldo Rivera
with the Al Capone vault,
that they're opening this
sarcophagus for the first time.
>>HANCOCK: That was
so staged, wasn't it?
>>DAVID: Yeah.
And then they find what inside?
>>HANCOCK: I don't
even remember.
>>DAVID: Nothing.
>>HANCOCK: Nothing basically.
>>DAVID: There was
nothing, just a big empty.
It was a big letdown.
>>HANCOCK: It was
a huge non-event.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>HANCOCK: It was
a huge non-event,
and there have been quite a
number of these non-events
where the public
is kind of wound up
to a pitch of anticipation,
and then nothing actually
happens in the end.
I don't know what's going on.
I feel we're being
managed and manipulated,
our opinions our understandings.
We're not being allowed to
get to the truth of Giza,
and that's part
of what I've tried
to do with my work
over the years
is to bring some
alternative information.
>>DAVID: Much work would it take
for allegedly primitive society
like the Egyptians to dig
out a cathedral-sized room
underground out of the
straight ahead bedrock
and then keep bringing that
rock up to the surface?
>>HANCOCK: Well, it was a
gigantic project, but so is
the building of the pyramids.
We're looking at a superhuman
effort here, something
above and beyond the ordinary.
This is a-- and we know that.
Anybody who really goes
to Giza with an open mind
and feels the energy in the
atmosphere of that place,
knows that it's very special.
>>DAVID: So as you just
heard, the tunneling effort
was superhuman in nature.
There's an incredible
amount of rock
that would have had to
have been pulled out
by any conventional means.
So this is very,
very interesting.
Now, in the next
episode, we're going
to finalize our interview
with Graham Hancock
and finalize our 14 part
miniseries on ancient history.
And here is where we're going to
hear Hancock's view summarizing
all of the different
things that we've learned
throughout this miniseries.
Talking about the
Orion correlation
theory of Robert Bauval,
talking about the Sphinx water
weathering of John Anthony
West, tying together the giants
that Andrew Collins
was talking about,
tying together the
proto civilization
and the unified teaching that
spread out over the world
that Laird Scranton
has been talking about.
All the different pieces
are coming together,
coming up next time in our final
interview with Graham Hancock
and our final section
of this ancient history
subdivision of "Disclosure."
I hope you'll be here next time
to enjoy it, I know I will.
I'm waiting here for ya, just
turn it on and we'll be here.
Thank you for watching.
[MUSIC PLAYING]